If you woke up in a house being filled with
poison gas and were told to follow a trapped
treasure hunt to find the antidotes, what
would you do?
In this How to Beat video, we’ll follow
Jigsaw’s latest victims, see if we can make
better decisions, and ultimately attempt to
beat the traps in, Saw 2.
Think you can do better, let us know in the
comments!
Enjoy these How to Beat videos, like and subscribe!
Have a movie you’d like me to cover, reply
to this comment!
If you haven’t seen my video on Saw 1, go
check it out to see how all of the pain and
suffering in this sequel could have been prevented.
Alright, let’s see if we can outsmart Jigsaw
and his traps, again.
We start out following a guy named Michael.
His name isn’t important because he probably
won’t be with us for very long.
Michael cranks the standing mirror over to
see why his eye hurts so fricking much.
The results are inconclusive, but it’s definitely
not a stye.
The TV turns on and an evil Dr. Phil tells
him that his career as a police informant
is over unless he proves himself worthy.
The rules of the game are as follows..
The
funny thing about the key he needs, is that
it’s located in the clear jelly-like core
of his eyeball.
This takes the phrase, ‘snitches get stitches’
to an entirely new level.
Man, this makes Amanda seem lucky.
She got to scalpel someone else.
Michael has to scalpel himself.
Jigsaw doesn’t provide a demonstration for
this trap, but I think it’s pretty clear
what will happen when this nail filled mask
slams shut.
Michael’s first course of action is to scream
for help, which beautifully reverberates around
the concrete basement he’s entombed in.
The wire attached to his head contraption
isn’t helping the claustrophobic feeling
of being in here, so he yanks it off.
Unfortunately, this triggered the spring-loaded
clock.
Based on the ticking sound, he’s got 60
seconds.
You can make cupcake baking stressful by adding
a timer.
This guy’s head is inside a nail filled
venus fly trap with seconds before it closes.
He better be able to think clearly under stress.
The first thing he sees is a little box on
the ground next to him, which has a scalpel
in it.
You could take the scalpel as a bad sign,
or cringe at the thought of slitting your
eyeball open like a Pokeball, but at least
you have the scalpel.
It could be worse.
Jigsaw could have left him with nothing and
forced him to dig his fingers into his eye
socket and rip his eyeball out to get the
key.
Michael can’t muster up the nerve to dig
through his eye before his time runs out,
and his game ends.
Let’s rewind and see what Michael could
have done to beat this trap without performing
surgery on himself.
Right off the bat, he shouldn’t have yanked
the wire out which initiated the countdown
and caused his stress levels to go nuclear.
I think this is a reasonable error he could
have avoided.
When Jigsaw was talking about the ‘spring-loaded’
timer on his death mask, Michael had felt
around and located a circular device with
a glass face which was attached to the wire.
He could also have confirmed this by using
the mirror.
It’s not a stretch to think that in order
for a ‘spring-loaded’ timer to be activated,
something holding the spring-loaded has to
be removed.
It should have been obvious that it was the
wired pin inserted into the timer.
The next move would be to try to figure out
a way to dismantle the pulley system which
could pull the wire and set the trap off.
Even with the trigger disarmed, you’d still
want to get the bear trap off your head in
case it was set off somehow.
Using the mirror and feeling around, he’d
see that this head contraption was mounted
on a leather harness with a waist band and
shoulder straps secured by padlocks.
The device looks like a single piece design
that was slipped over his head.
What also makes me think that, is that the
key he needs to find unlocks the padlocks
on his harness, not the device.
He could use the scalpel to cut the straps
and lift the device off over his head.
If Michael had pulled the pin and started
the timer by accident, I still think he could
have cut the leather straps off in time to
slip the device off before it snapped shut.
If I’m wrong and it is a two piece design
that was tightly fitted around his neck and
couldn’t be lifted off, well, then that
sucks, especially if he’s on the clock.
His only option besides getting the key is
to jam the device by either shoving the flimsy
toolbox in between the levers by his neck,
or put the metal stool over his head.
Bear traps can exert up to 1000 pounds of
pressure, so I'd go with the stool and not
the thin metal box.
Michael circumventing this trap by jamming
it or cutting himself loose might not be enough
to beat it if he’s locked in a concrete
cell.
Jigsaw usually requires his victim to sacrifice
their pound of flesh in order to be free’d,
so the door may not be opened for him until
he obtains the key.
Digging through his vitreous humour to find
the key to the door is still a last ditch
move.
I’d try to wait a few days before putting
myself under the knife in hopes that someone
found me.
Turns out, this was a good call.
Michael’s body was found by county asbestos
cleaners a day or so later.
Detective Allison Kerry is the lead on the
case, but she brings Detective Eric Matthews
in because Michael was his informant.
Or I should say, they think the body was his
informant based on the writing on the ceiling
and the video tapes.
Eric is able to identify the body as his informant
based on a tattoo, so Allison pries further
to see if he has any idea who would be capable
of engineering all this.
Eric’s no Jim Gordon.
He’s completely unmotivated to take on this
case with the backdrop of his crumbling family
life, even after being called out by Jigsaw
himself.
Back at the police station, Allison’s reviewing
the tapes trying to find clues.
She’s not very good at her job, so she ropes
Eric in to take Jigsaw’s bait in hopes that
she can catch a lead off of it.
Look, I’m no detective, but does following
a serial killer's clues ever really help you?
They wouldn’t have given you a clue if they
thought it’d lead to them getting caught.
Eric wakes up in the middle of the night when
he’s suddenly hit with the realization that
Michael’s device had the logo of the abandoned
Wilson Steel factory on it.
Obvious bait, but Eric think’s he’s more
clever than he actually is and calls Allison
with the news.
Allison should know from investigating Jigsaw’s
previous victims that he isn’t stupid and
wouldn’t leave clues out like this unless
he wanted them to show up at the factory and
play another one of his games.
What would I do if I was Allison?
Not go into the factory.
Has Allison already forgotten what happened
to Detective Tapp and Sing?
Besides being dangerous as hell, you’re
just playing into his hand.
I would get the blueprint for the factory
and stake out all the exits.
Jigsaw wants us to run into his funhouse.
He wants us to play his game.
By playing hard to get, Jigsaw might emerge
from hiding in order to tempt our attention
again.
Again, Allison’s a sitty detective with
no leads so far, so she’s perfectly fine
letting Eric walk right into a trap.
At least they got a warrant and called in
a SWAT team instead of bum rushing in like
Detective Tapp and Sing did in Saw 1.
The SWAT team makes entry, but as expected,
the factory is trapped.
The other SWAT operators apparently didn’t
hear the buzzing sound of the metal fencing
being electrified or thought it was just the
sound of the lights.
The rest of the SWAT team pushes through to
the second floor and finds Jigsaw doodling
out some new trap designs while eating Cheerios.
They cuff him up and Eric rolls in to drop
the one-liner he was practicing on the drive
over.
This just show’s Eric’s naivety and why
he shouldn’t be on the case.
When taking down the evil mastermind is this
easy, and they are that calm when apprehended,
you should be wondering how you’re getting
played instead of getting cocky.
Jigsaw tells Eric that instead of going straight
to a jail cell, he’ll hang out here while
Eric deals with the problem in the room across
from them.
Right about now it should be hitting them
that they fricked up coming here.
The SWAT team captain tosses a pipe to the
fencing to make sure it’s not electrified,
which is a good call considering what happened
earlier.
Eric and Allison enter and uncover a bunch
of monitors displaying Jigsaw’s latest victims
in a trap.
One of those victims is Daniel, Eric’s son.
What happened to the United States does not
negotiate with terrorists.
Throw this demented cancer patient in a hole
and throw away the hole.
He thinks he has leverage because he thinks
he can get you to play his game.
Villains like Jigsaw orchestrate their escapes
by throwing victims at the police as distractions.
The way to end it is by not negotiating.
You just take the L on those victims and eliminate
the target.
It’s not the most political move, but it
stops this sit dead in its tracks and heavily
disincentivizes future terrorists because
it’s no longer an effective strategy.
It’s like John Wick dome shotting Santino
in the Continental.
If Allison wanted to take the trophy home
on the Jigsaw case, this is the out of the
box thinking that Jigsaw would not expect
whatsoever.
Of course she’d have to take charge and
pull Eric off the case ASAP before Jigsaw
got Eric too emotionally invested, because
in this situation, taking the L on the victims
means his son might die.
Eric calls his son’s phone number and Jigsaw
tells him to leave a message after the beep.
Yep, it’s confirmed, his son’s in deep
sit.
But everyone needs to take a deep breath here.
Jigsaw’s trying to get everyone tilted.
Let’s think this through.
From Allison’s investigation of all of Jigsaw’s
previous cases, she would know that he often
speaks with loaded phrases that are more literal
than they seem, so Eric needs to be relaying
everything he hears Jigsaw say to Allison,
especially things like this..
This completely contradicts what he just said
moments earlier.
About Daniel having 2 hours before the poisonous
gas breaks his tissue down and floods his
lungs with blood.
The 2 hours thing is bothering me for another
reason too.
There are 7 victims in the trap on the monitor.
Jigsaw says that he hasn’t checked the monitors
in a bit, but he thinks they have about 2
hours left before they are dead.
This is a tight timeline.
Too tight.
I don’t really buy that Jigsaw put the victims
in there, and timed the police arrival perfectly
so that there was 2 hours remaining before
the gas killed the victims.
He even put a clock in there with 2 hours
counting down.
If Eric hadn’t had his revelation quickly
enough, hesitated a little, or the police
just didn’t gear up and make it to the factory
as quickly as they did, the victims would
all be dead and the meta game involving Eric
wouldn’t work.
The counter-points would be that Jigsaw had
the gas flow on a remote, and triggered it
when the police showed up.
Or that he had help that triggered it when
the police showed up to the factory.
It does make sense that he had help, a late
stage cancer patient wouldn’t be able to
snare 7 people and drag them into a trap room.
These both still don’t explain the incredibly
coincidental timing of when they showed up
to the factory, and when the victims woke
up, found the cassette tape, and started progressing
through the trap.
For all they know, this isn’t real time
footage at all.
They need to bring in a computer forensics
team to start investigating the feed and broadcasting
location, which they do, as well as bring
in a bomb squad team to help the SWAT team
turn this factory inside out looking for anything
useful, which they don’t do.
Apparently everyone thinks sitting on their
asses watching Jigsaw’s reality TV is going
to solve the case.
Jigsaw tells Eric that he just wants to talk
to him alone, which Eric reluctantly agrees
to.
He does sneak a radio in too so Allison can
listen in.
With Jigsaw in their custody, how could he
possibly ensure the safety and security of
Daniel by sitting here talking with Eric when
Daniel’s in a trapped house being filled
with poison gas with 6 other desperate strangers.
The most reasonable answer is he can’t.
Even if Jigsaw technically didn’t specify
whether Daniel would be dead or alive when
returned, he still couldn’t ensure that
his corpse was in a ‘safe’ and ‘secure’
state.
Based on the previous cases Allison is aware
of, Jigsaw has honored the rules of the games
he’s created, even if he lies or double
speaks about some aspects, and winning is
an option.
So if winning is an option for Eric, then
technically the only way for Jigsaw to ensure
the conditions and availability of the prize,
AKA Daniel, is to already have Daniel in a
safe place somewhere.
The fact that the time coordination between
Eric and Daniel’s game is highly implausible,
and outcome coordination of Daniel’s game
is near impossible would make me very suspicious
that this is pre-recorded footage.
And the longer Daniel survives in the game
on the monitor, the higher the probability
that this is pre-recorded.
They could also try to bluff Jigsaw by confronting
him about how they ‘know’ it’s pre-recorded,
that the screen feed is paused or stuck, that
Daniel is dead and they are taking him to
jail now.
Jigsaw can’t see the monitors, so if he
expressed that he knew anything it’d be
suspect.
The interesting thing about this game is that
Jigsaw is in police custody.
If Eric puts on some beethoven and kicks his
feet up, Daniel will be returned to him and
Jigsaw would go to jail.
Seems like an outcome Jigsaw would want to
avoid, but he might not care because he’s
almost dead, and whoever is helping him will
continue his legacy.
Still, not exactly a preferable way to go
out.
Nor is it interesting.
Jigsaw has demonstrated that he knows Eric’s
shady off the books tendencies.
If I was Allison, I’d anticipate Jigsaw
baiting Eric into doing something stupid to
get his son back, which will entail wittingly
or unwittingly helping Jigsaw escape.
How could Eric possibly walk out of here with
Jigsaw without them being able to follow?
Well, if they paid attention, secured the
blueprints for the building, and properly
secured the area, they’d know that Jigsaw
is sitting in a utility elevator.
Convenient that he’d want to remain there
for the duration of the game.
I wouldn’t bag Jigsaw right now, or let
him know that I knew his plan.
Daniel could still be anywhere, so we need
Jigsaw to lead us to him.
We start following the 7 unlucky contestants
in the trap house being filled with poison
gas.
Well, they don’t know that yet.
While they definitely aren’t in jail, they
are being held captive with a camera watching
their movements.
Daniel graciously points out that those types
of cameras don’t have sound.
A woman named Amanda, who we’re all familiar
with, wakes up with a look of horror and panic
on her face.
She immediately starts running around checking
every nook and cranny until she finds the
infamous cassette recorder.
Not exactly a subtle move on her part.
Now everyone knows that she knows what’s
going on.
She hits play on the cassette recorder..
He then goes on to say that several antidotes
are hidden around the house, 1 of which is
in the safe in this room.
He says they each have the combination numbers
for the safe written on the back of their
minds, and the order of the numbers can be
found over the rainbow.
I don’t see any rainbows, but maybe there’s
a box of lucky charms with instructions inside.
Jigsaw also says that once they realize what
they have in common, they will better understand
why they are here.
For this clue, X marks the spot.
Finding out what they have in common doesn’t
sound like it leads to an antidote, so this
is a waste of time.
There’s no point in covering your mouth
with clothing or anything like that.
Nerve gas vapor can permeate your skin, so
clothing or a paper mask won’t stop it.
Amanda should know from helping Jigsaw set
up traps and being a previous victim that
his phrasing is loaded and often literal.
She should be checking the back of their heads
& necks for numbers.
This is later revealed to be where Jigsaw
hid the numbers.
It shouldn’t be too hard for Amanda to figure
out that the numbers were colored, and with
7 victims in the trap and 7 letters in the
ROYGBIV acronym, this is how the combination
is ordered.
The vault only contains 1 antidote based on
Jigsaw’s message, so she needs to be secretive
about collecting the others’ numbers, and
then she needs to get herself alone with the
vault so the others don’t fight her for
it.
Amanda doesn’t seem to have learned much
from her time with Jigsaw.
That or she’s not actually a victim here..
Xavier picks up a letter on the ground with
a key attached to it.
It says, do not attempt to use this key in
the door to this room.
Neglecting Amanda’s warnings, Xavier tries
to unlock the door with the key while Gus
looks through the peephole.
Okay.. let’s not break the rules from now
on.
This trap was odd.
Why was the gun aimed through the peephole?
It's extremely unlikely that someone would
be looking through the peephole while they
or someone else simultaneously unlocked the
door.
It would make more sense to aim the barrel
of the gun through the doorknob so that the
bullet was directed straight into the person
trying to open it.
The other victims start questioning Amanda
as to how she knew about the rules, the tape,
and Jigsaw.
Amanda tells them that she’s played one
of his games before.
Yah, I'd neglect to mention that I was Jigsaw’s
apprentice too.
Everyone buys her half of the story, and starts
turning the room inside out trying to find
the key to the vault with no luck.
The door to the room suddenly opens by itself.
It appears to have been on a time delay.
They all start dispersing through the house
looking for clues, but the more intelligent
victims are also grabbing weapons.
These antidotes are sparse.
Unless this herd gets thinned out a lot, there
won’t be enough for all of them.
It should go without saying that they should
be treading very lightly and using extreme
caution when manipulating any objects unless
they want to end up like Gus.
That means not fixing crooked picture frames.
Jesus dude, that’s one of the most well-known
types of booby-traps out there.
Xavier tries using the spiked bat to break
down the door labeled exit, but it’s metal
reinforced.
Gee, I'm shocked that the door labeled exit
wasn’t actually an exit.
I do think Xavier has the right idea.
He’s just thinking a little too in the box.
This is an entire house, not a tiny concrete
room.
I highly doubt the entire building is covered
in metal barricades, more likely they just
cover the weak points like windows and doors.
The 7 of them with access to weapons and tools
should be able to knock down a wall or break
through the weaker ceilings within 2 hours.
If they attempted this, they’d want to blind
the cameras too, just in case their captor
was watching and decided to up the gas flow
for breaking the rules.
Laura finds a door leading down into the basement,
where they find another cassette tape stuck
in a doll with a note for Obi.
Welp, Obi’s dead.
There’s no way the others let him walk out
of here after hearing that and Laura’s witness
testimony of Obi abducting her.
Obi tries to save his own ass by volunteering
to go into the furnace to get the needles,
saying that he gets one if he makes it out.
I know nobody wants to volunteer to go into
an obviously trapped furnace, but putting
two antidotes in the hands of the sociopath
who kidnapped all of you isn’t a good idea
either.
And really, if you don’t get those antidotes,
you’re dead anyways.
Jonas questions whether or not they should
even be getting and sticking themselves with
these needles, and up until now I'd have agreed
with him.
But with everyone starting to collapse and
cough up blood, I don’t think they have
a choice.
Before going in they should check for gas
lines and shut them if possible, jam the door
open and have someone hold his feet ready
to pull him out if sit goes south, as well
as check for any additional engineering that
was done to the furnace.
They know from Gus and the peephole cannon
that Jigsaw uses rather unsophisticated mechanics
that they need to watch for.
Like this obvious pulley right next to the
door that Obi completely misses.
Again, I wouldn’t have sent a selfish bastard
like Obi in, but since they did, they might
as well ensure his safety so he brings back
the antidotes.
Obi finds the antidotes dangling from chains
hanging on the ceiling of the furnace.
This guy’s like Marv from Home Alone.
Harry, I’ve reached the antidotes.
When he goes to pull the second antidote,
instead of carefully pulling the syringe from
the chain, he just yanks the chain connected
to the pulley and wire connected to the door
pulls it shut and ignites the furnace.
God damn this was so obvious it hurts, but
this was the same dipsit who fixed the crooked
picture frames in a booby trapped house.
There’s a nozzle across the flames that
says twist me, which based on the tapes is
a method for extinguishing the flames.
Obi’s too much of a botch to take the hit
and twist the nozzle, so he goes up in flames
along with the antidotes.
The others break the back window and Obi manages
to squeeze his head and arm through, but it’s
too late.
Obi is dust and ashes from the neck down.
They check to see if that was the hand holding
the needles, but nope.
To be fair to Obi, the antidotes weren’t
ranking high on the priority list at the time.
Everyone’s really starting to succumb to
the effects by now.
They’ve already burned away an hour and
still haven’t gotten any antidotes.
Xavier and the others find a semi-stuck door
and try to force their way in.
I swear, the nerve gas must be affecting their
vision, because I don’t know how they don’t
see the pulley and wire right above the door.
He forces it open, pulling the pin on the
clock on the door across the room which shows
4 minutes counting down.
Muscles runs over and tries to open the metal
vault door with his bare hands.
This guys the living embodiment of the saying,
when all you have is a hammer, everything
looks like a nail.
Jonas finds the cassette tape with Xavier’s
name on it and pops it into the cassette recorder.
After finishing the tape and realizing their
mission, they only have 2 minutes left to
find the key in the needlestack.
Jigsaw wants us to jump in and start hand
digging for it, which is a terrible method.
Shuffling the needles around is far too slow.
I’d have two people with shoes grab the
crate and baby carriage and start bucketing
out the needles.
By dispersing the needles over a greater area
and removing them from the pool, others can
more easily sift through them and check for
the key.
Meanwhile, another two people can use the
spiked bat and shovel that Amanda was previously
holding to fish around.
This chain gang isn’t in a cooperative,
team-first mindset.
Xavier grabs Amanda and throws her into the
pit of needles, presumably because she was
a junkie and would be the most comfortable
with the situation.
Everyone’s yelling at him for being an asshole,
which he is, but at least he acted.
None of you botches were doing anything.
Once Amanda gets past the initial shock factor,
she starts scrambling around and miraculously
finds the key which conveniently has a glow
tube attached to it for visibility.
She tosses it to Xavier who fumbles the key
at the 10 yard line, causing the door to be
locked, the antidote to be lost, and all Amanda’s
work to be in vain.
They’ve lost every antidote so far, their
time’s running out, and their chance of
securing more antidotes is slim.
Even if they get another antidote, it’s
not enough for all of them.
It’s time for plan B, which is busting through
the wall.
Xavier of all people correctly guesses the
solution to the number riddle.
I’d have guessed that the combo had something
to do with them all being prisoners, like
their cell or inmate numbers.
Nope, Jigsaw just sharpied the number on the
back of their necks.
Gus has a red number 2 on his neck.
Now he just has to get everyone else's number.
Jonas wants to help, but with only one antidote
in the vault and Xavier’s test-rage kicking
in, peace was never an option.
Jonas has some moves, but not enough to keep
him alive.
Jonas’ number is a yellow 16.
Xavier’s lucky that Obi popped his head
out of the furnace, but even if Obi turned
to ashes, he might still be able to brute
force the last number in time.
Obi’s number is a green 11.
I hope he’s writing these down.
The others are oblivious to this and still
trying to find clues.
As Laura chokes to death on her vomit, she
points out the X crack in a glass picture
frame.
Behind it is a picture of Daniel with his
Dad, the man who put them all in prison with
planted evidence.
As expected, nobody really cares too much.
It’s not like Jigsaw hid an antidote inside
Daniel.
Addison decided that she couldn’t trust
them, so she braves a new trap room by herself.
There’s a plexiglass box hanging from the
ceiling with two holes in the bottom and an
antidote inside.
There’s also a note with a cassette tape,
but she doesn’t have the player so she won’t
be getting any hints.
Addison’s immediate action is shoving her
hands into the boxes holes without any inspection,
testing, or caution.
Never stick your hands in unfamiliar holes,
that’s just common sense general life advice.
She should have used a foot of the wooden
chair behind her to stick in the hole to test
it, or just visually checked it from the top
and bottom.
Then she could use the stick to keep the blades
up while she ‘carefully’ pulled the antidote
out from the plunger side.
Once her hand is inside the box, she tries
to grab the antidote, but tugged on the capsule
which separated it from the plunger and released
the contents.
Another antidote down the drain.
When she tries to pull her hand out, the blades
cinch in and trap her wrist.
I think she could squeeze her other hand into
the same whole and push the blades up with
her fingers to free her hand.
If it’s too tight, maybe she could shove
her belt up into it or something.
Addison’s not the smartest tool in the shed,
so she shoves her other hand in the other
hole to grab the empty syringe capsule.
Must be the poison affecting her.
Writhing is just going to make things worse.
She might be able to shove her arms in further
and hold up the opposing side’s blades to
get one arm free, then get her remaining arm
free using the methods we already mentioned.
But yah, at this point she’s pretty stuck.
She doesn’t realize Xavier’s on a murdering
rampage yet, so from her POV calling for help
is the best option now.
Xavier arrives with no intention of helping,
and pulls her hair back to get her number.
Green 9.
Amanda discovers Jonas’s caved in skull
and hears Xavier yelling to find them.
He’s already hell bent on killing them,
but Daniel dropping the picture sure as sit
didn’t help.
In Xavier’s chase he finds Laura’s body
and collects her number too.
Amanda and Daniel wedge the door shut against
Xavier.
It seems like they are stuck until Amanda
finds a secret basement door.
They escape through it and wind up in a dead
end, which also happens to be the bathroom
from Saw 1.
Adam didn’t age too well, nor did Zep or
Lawrence’s foot.
Xavier chases them down, but before he kills
them for their numbers Amanda hits him with
the big Q. How will he get his own number?
This distracts Xavier into cutting his neck
skin off to get it, which opens an opportunity
for Daniel to saw his carotid artery open.
That was the same Saw Lawrence used on his
foot.
Nasty.
Xavier really should have killed them before
the self-surgery.
Sidenote, Xavier made it pretty damn far without
dying from the poison.
Dude was a tank.
Amanda and Daniel on the other hand, never
showed any symptoms.
I don’t think a nerve gas was being pumped
in, I think everyone was poisoned except Amanda
and Daniel.
Makes sense, Daniel has to live for Eric’s
metagame to work.
Amanda not being poisoned, however, is extremely
suspicious.
Back in the factory, Eric loses his mind watching
all this go down and tries to beat his son’s
location out of Jigsaw.
Allison, this is what Jigsaw wants, why haven’t
you talked sense into Eric.
Again, the fact that Daniel is still alive
means that the probability of this being pre-recorded
is very high, otherwise Jigsaw’s meta game
falls apart.
Jigsaw says, “game over”, and that he
will take Eric to Daniel on the condition
that nobody follows them.
And there it is, Jigsaw’s brilliant escape
plan.
Eric hit’s the elevator button which takes
them to the underground garage where his getaway
car is parked.
Allison was just completely gobsmacked by
this wholly unpredictable move.
There was just no way of anticipating that
Jigsaw had an escape plan or could have known
he was sitting in an elevator.
Eric should have grabbed the radio before
leaving so he could let the SWAT team know
his location after Jigsaw spills the beans.
Right after their escape, the tech team gets
a lock on the location the broadcast was originating
from.
Jigsaw leads Eric to the house, and Eric hops
out and heads inside without taking literally
any precautions.
He should have brought the radio or used his
cell phone to call in his location now that
he arrived.
He should have cuffed Jigsaw to the car, knee-caped,
or killed him right there.
Why Eric in all his rage didn’t kill Jigsaw
once they arrived is beyond me.
I get that Eric thinks he’s on a time crunch,
but waiting 5-10 minutes for SWAT to get there
seems reasonable given the danger Jigsaw’s
trap houses pose.
The police show up to the house where the
broadcast was originating from, except it’s
not the house the victims were in that Jigsaw
led Eric too.
It was a proxy house that was serving up old
footage.
The timer hits zero and buzzes open a vault
in the corner of the room.
Inside is little Daniel, breathing through
a mask.
I’m going to assume that he didn’t make
a peep this whole time because he was breathing
in sleeping gas until the timer hit zero.
Still, nobody checked what the countdown timer
was hooked up too?
Are the bomb and geek squad they brought in
really that fricking incompetent?
Eric makes his way down into the basement
where Xavier’s body has been rotting for
days.
If only he brought his radio or someone called
him with the news that Daniel was safe.
It looks like there is someone in the tub
in the back of the bathroom.
In his approach, he stupidly holsters his
weapon and gets within jump-scare distance.
Why.
Just why.
Eric’s stupidity finally catches up with
him.
What is with pigmask abducting people with
the worst strategy imaginable.
You’re going to hide in a tub, in the trap
house that Eric thinks his son was murdered,
with dead bodies everywhere, with a pig uniform
on, in hopes that he holsters his gun and
gets close enough to you so you can stab him
with a syringe.
Eric wakes up chained to the wall with a cassette
tape next to him.
At this point do you even need to listen to
the tape?
You have to realize you’re an idiot who's
completely fricked himself.
He hit’s play and Amanda basically tells
him it’s game over and he’s going to rot
in the bathroom like Adam.
The movie ends with Jigsaw chuckling at the
thought of Eric getting played like a fiddle.
Let’s recap the pivotal points where different
decisions could have altered who lived and
died.
Breaking out of the house was an option in
my opinion.
Then they could all hit up the hospital and
reveal the location of Jigsaw’s base.
Gus looking through the peephole was unnecessary
and unlucky.
He was always dead.
Obi’s death was entirely preventable, and
they could have secured two antidotes.
Xavier not seeing the pulley above the stuck
door was pretty dumb as well.
They could have secured another antidote,
leaving three in need.
Addison’s trap was also entirely beatable.
That’s another antidote.
Xavier wouldn’t have been so aggressive
and desperate with all these antidotes, and
with his brains, they’d have secured one
more antidote.
Interestingly, there’s only 5 antidotes.
This somewhat confirms my suspicion that Amanda
and Daniel were never poisoned.
This all seems well and good, but I doubt
the antidotes were effective.
Like the overdosed man in Amanda’s first
game, they were merely pawns in Amanda, Daniel,
and Eric’s games.
So all of them were dead no matter what.
If the detectives weren’t morons they would
have deduced that there was a high probability
of the game being prerecorded, checked what
the countdown timer was linked to, turned
the factory inside out, got the blueprints
to the factory, realized that Jigsaw was sitting
in an elevator, and anticipated Jigsaw’s
game likely involved an escape plan involving
Eric, Jigsaw likely wouldn’t have been successful.
If Eric had radioed in his location, the SWAT
team would have raided the actual house, taken
down Amanda and Jigsaw, and saved Eric’s
life.
Even if Amanda fled, there’s substantial
evidence that points to her being connected
with Jigsaw.
Her being involved and surviving two games
means she has recurring ties to him.
Daniel’s negative toxicology reports and
Amanda surviving with him to the end without
showing any symptoms is indicative that she
wasn’t poisoned either.
As a detective you have to ask why.
All said and done, I think we could have beaten
the traps from Saw 2.
Thanks for watching, and remember, be a good
person and value each day you’re alive.
Or you might end up in a psychopath’s torture
dungeon.